- [Instructor] Now we can start working
with batches of files in a signal directory
as opposed to single files at a time.
So I want you to go back
to that s3 directory that we created
in the previous video.
And let's take a look at what's in this directory this time.
Go ahead and type ls or whatever the command is
for your operating system to see the files that are there.
The first section we're going to take a look at
is the list operation.
The list operation gives us an indication
of what files are in a remote bucket.
So let's type in aws s3 ls from list
into an s3://fpmlil
or in your case your bucket name.
You'll see that we get no data back
and that's what we would expect.
We deleted all the files after the previous video.
It should be empty.
If yours is not empty,
you would see those files right here.
I would suggest you go remove them using an rm command
just to make sure that this video stays intact
or as close to it as possible.
So this brings us to the sync operation.
A sync operation will keep a local directory in sync
with an s3 bucket and s3 directory in sync
with a local bucket or an s3 directory in sync
with another s3 directory.
So let's start by sycing your local directory to s3.
So we're going to type aws s3 sync./
to indicate our local directory.
And then we're going to go to s3://
and then the name of our bucket,
in my case, fpmlil,
and what you will see is it tells us
that we did two file uploads.
Now we're going to create a new file locally.
So once again, I'm just going to use an echo command
to a file called
lil3.txt and I'm going to execute that sync command again.
This time you'll see it only uploaded one file.
It knows that the other two are up to date
from our local directory to the s3 bucket.
So it only needs to push one more.
Let's edit a file.
So let's do an edit.
So I'm going to open up vi on lil3
now that it's been synced,
and I will just simply add some more text here.
And I will save that.
Now I'm going to execute that sync command one more time.
And you'll see that it knew that that text file change
so it uploaded that new version of the text file.
Let's jump back to our console.
And we'll go ahead and refresh our bucket.
You'll see indeed we have three files located here.
I want you to go ahead and delete
the lil3.txt file.
So select it, choose your actions,
then onto delete, and delete it.
Now let's jump back to our terminal.
So we're going to type aws s3 sync.
This time we're going to sync from the bucket
fpmlil or your bucket name.
We're going to sync to local.
Nothing happened,
but we deleted a file.
So sync requires a command line argument
in order to do deletes.
And this is really for safety perspective.
Let's execute that command again,
but do a --delete.
You'll see it went ahead
and removed that third text file.
And this is critical because if we sync
we don't always want to delete
so having that option is really powerful.
Now let's jump back into our console, refresh our view.
Indeed the file is still gone,
and back in the terminal, the file is gone.
This is exactly what we would expect.
So sync is unidirectional
meaning it doesn't keep them in sync per se,
but it makes the source look like the destination.
And it is also important to note that like I said,
before with single file operations,
batch file operations can be done between buckets as well.
And not just our local file system.
I want to give that a try.
The first thing I want you to do
is I want you to type aws s3 mb s3://fpmlil2.
Again, use your prefix.
So this is just going to create a bucket add an s3,
that bucket has been created.
Now we're going to do an aws s3 sync
between s3://fpmlil.
So that's the one that we created before
that we know has two files in it.
And we're going to sync it to fpmlil2.
You will see that it copied the files
from our first bucket into our second bucket.
And if we go back to the console,
they still exist in our first bucket,
but if we go to our second bucket
there also there, and that's really cool.
We'll jump back into our first bucket
and jump back to our terminal
so that we can clean everything up.
In order to clean this up,
I'm going to use a couple commands
just to make this easy and descriptive.
So we will type aws s3 rm s3://fpmlil2.
So I'm going to remove everything from fpmlil2
by doing a recursive remove.
Now I can execute an aws s3 rb to remove the bucket
and our bucket is gone.
And that's all it is for file operations.
That ls command is really powerful.
That sync can be powerful depending on your use case,
but I use that ls command all the time
when dealing with s3.